# Single-Cycle-RISC-Processor
Designing and building a single-cycle RISC-type processor in VHDL

Nowadays, we have a small selection of design styles as applied to processors. One specific design style that we have mainly studied and analyzed is called the Reduced Instruction Set Computer (RISC). RISC is a computer with a small, highly optimized set of instructions, rather than the more specialized set often found in other types of architecture, such as in a complex instruction set computer (CISC). The main distinguishing feature of RISC is that the instruction set is optimized with a large number of registers and a highly regular instruction pipeline, allowing a low number of clock cycles per instruction. One specific example that was studied in detail is the MIPS processor, which was developed in the 1980s. MIPS processors are used in embedded systems such as residential gateways and routers. Originally, MIPS was designed for general-purpose computing. During the 1980s and 1990s, MIPS processors for personal, workstation, and server computers were used by many companies. Historically, video game consoles such as the Nintendo 64, Sony PlayStation, PlayStation 2, and PlayStation Portable used MIPS processors.

The lab manual provides the background how to implement the MIPS processor. This MIPS processor includes a couple functionalities such as memory-referencing instructions, arithmetic logic instructions, as well as control flow instructions. As this is a single-cycle processor that we will be implementing in this lab, our implementation will not include all integer operations supported by the MIPS ISA, such as multiply and divide, nor will it support floating-point operations, which are also supported by the MIPS processor. However, the design will be
modular and expandable in order to support additional operations if the need arises, such as the branch if not equal instruction for example. 

In order to design our single-cycle processor, we have split it into five parts: the control unit, the data memory, the register file, the ALU and the top file, which links all the parts together.
